tools/cmd/am-dbg/README.md, before:

# <img src="https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/logo.png" height="25"/> /tools/cmd/am-dbg

[`cd /`](/README.md)

> [!NOTE]
> **asyncmachine-go** is a batteries-included graph control flow library (AOP, actor model, state-machine).

## am-dbg TUI Debugger

[![am-dbg](https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-reader.png)](https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-reader.png)

`am-dbg` is a lightweight, multi-client debugger which can handle hundreds of simultaneous streams from asyncmachines.
It's built around a timeline of transitions and allows for precise searches and drill-downs of state mutations.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>
        <img src="https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-log.png" />
    </td>
    <td>
        <img src="https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-steps.png" />
    </td>
    <td>
        <img src="https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-rain.png" />
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Installation

- [Download a release binary](https://github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/releases/latest)
- Install `go install github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/tools/cmd/am-dbg@latest`
- Run directly `go run github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/tools/cmd/am-dbg@latest`

> [!NOTE]
> **asyncmachine-go** is a batteries-included graph control flow library (AOP, actor model, state-machine).

## Features

- **states tree**: list of all states and relations of the selected state machine, with their clock ticks,
  search-as-you-type, and error highlighting.
- **log view**: highlighted log view with the current transition being selected.
- **address bar**: navigate the hitory with 2 entries per machine.
- **stepping through transitions**: draws relations graph lines of the resolutions process in the states tree.
- **time travel**: transition and steps timelines allow to navigate in time, even between different state machines.
- **transition info**: show number, machine time, type, states, states, and human time of each transition.
- **import / export**: using Brotli and `encoding/gob`, it's easy to save and share dump files.
- **filters**: filters narrow down both the number of transitions, and log messages.
- **rain view**: high-level view of transitions with error highlighting and human time, one per line.
- **client list**: all the currently nad previously connected state machines, with search-as-you-type, error
  highlighting, and remaining transitions marker.
- **fast jumps**: jump by 100 transitions, or select a state from the tree and jump to its next occurrence.
- **keyboard navigation**: the UI is keyboard accessible, just press the **? key**.
- **mouse support**: most elements can be clicked and scrolled.
- **SSH access**: an instance of the debugger can be shared directly from an edge server via a built-in SSH server.
- **log rotation**: older entries will be automatically discarded in order.
- **log reader**: extract entries from **LogOps** and **SemLogger** into a dedicated pane.
  - **source event**: navigate to source events, internal or external.
  - **queue**: shows the full queue, queued and executed times for this mutation.
  - **handlers**: list executed handlers.
  - **contexts**: list state contexts and mach time.
  - **subscriptions**: list awaited clocks.
  - **piped states**: list all inbound and outbound pipes.
- **partial layout**: some elements of the UI can be hidden, so many instances can create dashboards

```text
Usage:
  am-dbg [flags]

Flags:
      --clean-on-connect         Clean up disconnected clients on the 1st connection
      --dbg-am-dbg-addr string   Debug this instance of am-dbg with another one
      --dbg-go-race              Go race detector is enabled
      --dbg-id string            ID of this instance (default "am-dbg")
      --dbg-log-level int        Log level produced by this instance, 0-5 (silent-everything)
      --dbg-prof-srv string      Start pprof server
  -d, --dir string               Output directory for generated files (default ".")
      --enable-mouse             Enable mouse support (experimental) (default true)
      --filter-group             Filter transitions by a selected group (default true)
      --filter-log-level int     Filter transitions to this log level produced by this instance, 0-5 (silent-everything) (default 2)
  -f, --fwd-data string          Forward incoming data to other instances (eg addr1,addr2)
  -h, --help                     help for am-dbg
  -i, --import-data string       Import an exported gob.br file
  -l, --listen-on string         Host and port for the debugger to listen on (default "localhost:6831")
      --log-ops-ttl string       Max time to live for logs level LogOps (default "24h")
      --max-mem int              Max memory usage (in MB) to flush old transitions (default 1000)
      --output-clients           Write a detailed client list into am-dbg-clients.txt inside --dir
      --output-diagrams int      Level of details for diagrams (svg, d2, mermaid) in --dir (0 off, 1-3 on). EXPERIMENTAL
      --output-tx                Write the current transition with steps into am-dbg-tx.md inside --dir
  -c, --select-connected         Select the newly connected machine, if no other is connected
      --select-group string      Startup group
  -m, --select-machine string    Select a machine by (partial) ID on startup (requires --import-data)
  -t, --select-transition int    Select a transaction by _number_ on startup (requires --select-machine)
      --tail                     Start from the lastest tx (default true)
      --ui-diagrams              Start a web diagrams viewer on a +1 port (EXPERIMENTAL) (default true)
      --version                  Print version and exit
  -v, --view string              Initial view (tree-log, tree-matrix, matrix) (default "tree-log")
      --view-narrow              Force a narrow view, independently of the viewport size
      --view-rain                Show the rain view
  -r, --view-reader              Enable Log Reader
      --view-timelines int       Number of timelines to show (0-2) (default 2)
```

![legend](https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-legend.png)

## Steps to Debug

1. Set up telemetry:

    ```go
    import amhelp "github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/pkg/helpers"
    // ...
    amhelp.MachDebugEnv(myMach)
    ```

2. Run `am-dbg`
3. Run your code with

    ```bash
    # localhost:6831
    AM_DBG_ADDR=1
    AM_LOG=2
    AM_LOG_FULL=1
    ```

4. Your machine should show up in the debugger

## Demos

Demos are outdated.

Interactively use the TUI debugger with data pre-generated by **libp2p-pubsub-simulator** or **remote integration tests**
in one of the available ways below.

### Local no install

PubSub:

```bash
go run github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/tools/cmd/am-dbg@latest \
  --select-machine sim-p1 \
  --select-transition 25 \
  --import-data https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-exports/pubsub-sim.gob.br
````

Tests:

```bash
go run github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/tools/cmd/am-dbg@latest \
  --select-machine d-rem-worker \
  --select-transition 1100 \
  --import-data https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-exports/remote-tests.gob.br
````

### Remote no install

PubSub:

- web browser: [http://188.166.101.108:8080/wetty/ssh](http://188.166.101.108:8080/wetty/ssh/am-dbg?pass=am-dbg:8080/wetty/ssh/am-dbg?pass=am-dbg)
- terminal: `ssh 188.166.101.108 -p 4444`

Tests:

- web browser: [http://188.166.101.108:8081/wetty/ssh](http://188.166.101.108:8081/wetty/ssh/am-dbg?pass=am-dbg:8081/wetty/ssh/am-dbg?pass=am-dbg)
- terminal: `ssh 188.166.101.108 -p 4445`

## Dashboard

![dashboard](https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-dashboard.png)

Small-scale dashboards can be achieved by using the `--fwd-data` param, with multiple instances **am-dbg** as
destinations. It will duplicate all the memory allocations and won't scale far, but it will work. Check out
[`/config/dashboards`](/config/dashboards) directory for preconfigured [zellij layouts](https://zellij.dev/).

## Steps for SSH Server

[Download an SSH release binary](https://github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/releases/latest) or use `go install`:

`go install github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/tools/am-dbg-ssh@latest`

```text
am-dbg-ssh is an SSH version of asyncmachine-go debugger.

You can connect to a running instance with any SSH client.

Usage:
  am-dbg-ssh -s localhost:4444 [flags]
```

## monorepo

- [`/tools/debugger`](/tools/debugger/README.md)

[Go back to the monorepo root](/README.md) to continue reading.

Commit message:

feat(am-dbg): add `--enable-clipboard=false` (#300)

tools/cmd/am-dbg/README.md, after:

# <img src="https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/logo.png" height="25"/> /tools/cmd/am-dbg

[`cd /`](/README.md)

> [!NOTE]
> **asyncmachine-go** is a batteries-included graph control flow library (AOP, actor model, state-machine).

## am-dbg TUI Debugger

[![am-dbg](https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-reader.png)](https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-reader.png)

`am-dbg` is a lightweight, multi-client debugger which can handle hundreds of simultaneous streams from asyncmachines.
It's built around a timeline of transitions and allows for precise searches and drill-downs of state mutations.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>
        <img src="https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-log.png" />
    </td>
    <td>
        <img src="https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-steps.png" />
    </td>
    <td>
        <img src="https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-rain.png" />
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Installation

- [Download a release binary](https://github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/releases/latest)
- Install `go install github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/tools/cmd/am-dbg@latest`
- Run directly `go run github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/tools/cmd/am-dbg@latest`

> [!NOTE]
> **asyncmachine-go** is a batteries-included graph control flow library (AOP, actor model, state-machine).

## Features

- **states tree**: list of all states and relations of the selected state machine, with their clock ticks,
  search-as-you-type, and error highlighting.
- **log view**: highlighted log view with the current transition being selected.
- **address bar**: navigate the hitory with 2 entries per machine.
- **stepping through transitions**: draws relations graph lines of the resolutions process in the states tree.
- **time travel**: transition and steps timelines allow to navigate in time, even between different state machines.
- **transition info**: show number, machine time, type, states, states, and human time of each transition.
- **import / export**: using Brotli and `encoding/gob`, it's easy to save and share dump files.
- **filters**: filters narrow down both the number of transitions, and log messages.
- **rain view**: high-level view of transitions with error highlighting and human time, one per line.
- **client list**: all the currently nad previously connected state machines, with search-as-you-type, error
  highlighting, and remaining transitions marker.
- **fast jumps**: jump by 100 transitions, or select a state from the tree and jump to its next occurrence.
- **keyboard navigation**: the UI is keyboard accessible, just press the **? key**.
- **mouse support**: most elements can be clicked and scrolled.
- **SSH access**: an instance of the debugger can be shared directly from an edge server via a built-in SSH server.
- **log rotation**: older entries will be automatically discarded in order.
- **log reader**: extract entries from **LogOps** and **SemLogger** into a dedicated pane.
  - **source event**: navigate to source events, internal or external.
  - **queue**: shows the full queue, queued and executed times for this mutation.
  - **handlers**: list executed handlers.
  - **contexts**: list state contexts and mach time.
  - **subscriptions**: list awaited clocks.
  - **piped states**: list all inbound and outbound pipes.
- **partial layout**: some elements of the UI can be hidden, so many instances can create dashboards

```text
Usage:
  am-dbg [flags]

Flags:
      --clean-on-connect         Clean up disconnected clients on the 1st connection (default true)
      --dbg-am-dbg-addr string   Debug this instance of am-dbg with another one
      --dbg-go-race              Go race detector is enabled
      --dbg-id string            ID of this instance (default "am-dbg")
      --dbg-log-level int        Log level produced by this instance, 0-5 (silent-everything)
      --dbg-prof-srv string      Start pprof server
  -d, --dir string               Output directory for generated files (default ".")
      --enable-clipboard         Enable clipboard support (default true)
      --enable-mouse             Enable mouse support (experimental) (default true)
      --filter-group             Filter transitions by a selected group (default true)
      --filter-log-level int     Filter transitions to this log level, 0-5 (silent-everything) (default 2)
  -f, --fwd-data string          Forward incoming data to other instances (eg addr1,addr2)
  -h, --help                     help for am-dbg
  -i, --import-data string       Import an exported gob.br file
  -l, --listen-on string         Host and port for the debugger to listen on (default "localhost:6831")
      --log-ops-ttl string       Max time to live for logs level LogOps (default "24h")
      --max-mem int              Max memory usage (in MB) to flush old transitions (default 1000)
      --output-clients           Write a detailed client list into am-dbg-clients.txt inside --dir
      --output-diagrams int      Level of details for diagrams (svg, d2, mermaid) in --dir (0 off, 1-3 on). EXPERIMENTAL
      --output-tx                Write the current transition with steps into am-dbg-tx.md inside --dir
  -c, --select-connected         Select the newly connected machine, if no other is connected
      --select-group string      Startup group
  -m, --select-machine string    Select a machine by (partial) ID on startup (requires --import-data)
  -t, --select-transition int    Select a transaction by _number_ on startup (requires --select-machine)
      --tail                     Start from the lastest tx (default true)
      --ui-diagrams              Start a web diagrams viewer on a +1 port (EXPERIMENTAL) (default true)
      --version                  Print version and exit
  -v, --view string              Initial view (tree-log, tree-matrix, matrix) (default "tree-log")
      --view-narrow              Force a narrow view, independently of the viewport size
      --view-rain                Show the rain view
  -r, --view-reader              Enable Log Reader
      --view-timelines int       Number of timelines to show (0-2) (default 2)
```

![legend](https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-legend.png)

## Steps to Debug

1. Set up telemetry:

    ```go
    import amhelp "github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/pkg/helpers"
    // ...
    amhelp.MachDebugEnv(myMach)
    ```

2. Run `am-dbg`
3. Run your code with

    ```bash
    # localhost:6831
    AM_DBG_ADDR=1
    AM_LOG=3
    AM_LOG_FULL=1
    ```

4. Your machine should show up in the debugger

## Demos

Demos are outdated.

Interactively use the TUI debugger with data pre-generated by **libp2p-pubsub-simulator** or **remote integration tests**
in one of the available ways below.

### Local no install

PubSub:

```bash
go run github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/tools/cmd/am-dbg@latest \
  --select-machine sim-p1 \
  --select-transition 25 \
  --import-data https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-exports/pubsub-sim.gob.br
````

Tests:

```bash
go run github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/tools/cmd/am-dbg@latest \
  --select-machine d-rem-worker \
  --select-transition 1100 \
  --import-data https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-exports/remote-tests.gob.br
````

### Remote no install

PubSub:

- web browser: [http://188.166.101.108:8080/wetty/ssh](http://188.166.101.108:8080/wetty/ssh/am-dbg?pass=am-dbg:8080/wetty/ssh/am-dbg?pass=am-dbg)
- terminal: `ssh 188.166.101.108 -p 4444`

Tests:

- web browser: [http://188.166.101.108:8081/wetty/ssh](http://188.166.101.108:8081/wetty/ssh/am-dbg?pass=am-dbg:8081/wetty/ssh/am-dbg?pass=am-dbg)
- terminal: `ssh 188.166.101.108 -p 4445`

## Dashboard

![dashboard](https://pancsta.github.io/assets/asyncmachine-go/am-dbg-dashboard.png)

Small-scale dashboards can be achieved by using the `--fwd-data` param, with multiple instances **am-dbg** as
destinations. It will duplicate all the memory allocations and won't scale far, but it will work. Check out
[`/config/dashboards`](/config/dashboards) directory for preconfigured [zellij layouts](https://zellij.dev/).

## Steps for SSH Server

[Download an SSH release binary](https://github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/releases/latest) or use `go install`:

`go install github.com/pancsta/asyncmachine-go/tools/am-dbg-ssh@latest`

```text
am-dbg-ssh is an SSH version of asyncmachine-go debugger.

You can connect to a running instance with any SSH client.

Usage:
  am-dbg-ssh -s localhost:4444 [flags]
```

## monorepo

- [`/tools/debugger`](/tools/debugger/README.md)

[Go back to the monorepo root](/README.md) to continue reading.
